
\section{Malloc routines}\label{sec:malloc}

Suppose that we are making a producer-consumer style program using PiP,
a PiP task is a producer and another PiP task is a consumer. Unlike the
conventional process model, there is no need of calling IPC (Inter
Process Communication) system call in PiP. All we have to do is just
passing pointers pointing data to be passed from the producer to the
consumer.

Here, an issue arises. If the passing data is allocated by a {\tt
  malloc()} routine, then the passed data is {\tt free()}ed by
the consumer. As described so far, each PiP task has its own {\tt
  malloc()} and {\tt free()} routines associated with static variables
holding and maintaining a memory pool. The consumer receives the data
allocated from the memory pool of the producer and tries to {\tt
  free()} it when it becomes unnecessary. However, the {\tt free()}
routine on the consumer has no knowledge about the producer-allocated
memory region and fails (Figure~\ref{fig:cross-malloc-free-issue}). I
named this situation {\it cross-malloc-free}. 

\begin{figure}[ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\columnwidth]{malloc/Figs/ProducerConsumer.pdf}
\caption{Cross-Malloc-Free}
\label{fig:cross-malloc-free-issue}
\end{figure}

I tried this by using the {\tt malloc} routines provided Glibc and I
found that this works in most cases, not always. I do not know why
this works (again, {\bf in most cases}) with the Glibc {\tt malloc},
but I believe this situation must be avoided.

\begin{figure}[ht]
\centering
\includegraphics[width=0.7\columnwidth]{malloc/Figs/CrossMallocFree.pdf}
\caption{Cross-Malloc-Free}
\label{fig:cross-malloc-free}
\end{figure}

To deal with this, PiP library wraps {\tt malloc} routines as shown in
Table~\ref{tbl:pip-wrapper}. When an memory region is allocated, the
{\tt malloc} wrapper function embeds information who allocate the
region. When this region is to be {\tt free()}ed, the {\tt free()}
wrapper function connects the region to the freeing list of the task
allocating the region. The regions in the freeing list are eventually
{\tt free()}ed when one of the {\tt malloc} functions is called by the
producer (Figure~\ref{fig:cross-malloc-free}). 
